<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <title>How to Use This Book</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/dictionary.css" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
    <div class="how-to-use">
        <h1>How to Use This Book</h1>
        <p style="color: #64748b; font-style: italic; margin-bottom: 1.5rem;">
            A guide for parents, teachers, tutors, and learners
        </p>

        <h2>For Families: Shared Reading</h2>
        <p>This dictionary is designed for parents and children to explore <strong>together</strong>.
            Each page features a thematic scene from one of the 7 Lands of the Rhythm Quest.
            Point to each numbered item in the illustration, say the word aloud, then find it in the vocabulary table
            below.</p>

        <ol>
            <li>
                <span class="key-label">LOOK</span>
                Find the numbered items in the scene illustration at the top of each page.
            </li>
            <li>
                <span class="key-label">SAY</span>
                Read the word aloud. Use the phonetic guide <em>(/fuh-NEH-tik/)</em> to help with pronunciation.
            </li>
            <li>
                <span class="key-label">CONNECT</span>
                Read the sentence context to see how the word is used in the Rhythm Quest story.
            </li>
            <li>
                <span class="key-label">TRANSLATE</span>
                Write the word in your home language in the translation column. This makes the book yours!
            </li>
            <li>
                <span class="key-label">PLAY</span>
                Look for the character tips from the hero duos. They offer fun activities to practice each group of
                words.
            </li>
        </ol>

        <div class="differentiation-legend">
            <h4>Reading the Vocabulary Table</h4>
            <div class="legend-item">
                <span class="legend-label">#</span>
                <span class="legend-desc">The item number matching the illustration callout</span>
            </div>
            <div class="legend-item">
                <span class="legend-label">Word</span>
                <span class="legend-desc">The English vocabulary word in bold</span>
            </div>
            <div class="legend-item">
                <span class="legend-label">/Phonetic/</span>
                <span class="legend-desc">Pronunciation guide using simple syllable breaks</span>
            </div>
            <div class="legend-item">
                <span class="legend-label">In the Story…</span>
                <span class="legend-desc">A sentence showing how the word connects to the SOE characters</span>
            </div>
            <div class="legend-item">
                <span class="legend-label">My Language</span>
                <span class="legend-desc">Write the word in your home language here</span>
            </div>
        </div>

        <h2>For Teachers &amp; Programs</h2>
        <p>This dictionary is aligned with the thematic scope of the <em>Oxford Picture Dictionary</em> and
            supports <strong>Title III (English Language Acquisition)</strong> programming. Each Land maps to standard
            ESOL survival vocabulary topics. The sub-scenes can be used as standalone lesson units.</p>

        <div
            style="background: #eff6ff; border-left: 4px solid #2563EB; border-radius: 0 8px 8px 0; padding: 1rem 1.5rem; margin: 1.5rem 0;">
            <p style="font-weight: 600; color: #1e40af; margin-bottom: 0.25rem;">💡 Print Referencing Tip</p>
            <p style="color: #1e3a5f; font-size: 0.9rem; margin-bottom: 0;">
                When reading with a child, point to each word as you say it.
                Tap the number in the illustration, then trace your finger to the matching number in the table.
                This builds the crucial connection between spoken and written language.
            </p>
        </div>
    </div>
</body>

</html>